---
date: "2014-10-20T19:39:01+00:00"
draft: false
tags: 
title: " Pay"
---
I was really excited to try out  Pay today, so as soon as iOS 8.1 was installed on my phone [I walked down to our neighborhood Whole Foods](https://twitter.com/stickwithjosh/status/524258333000478721) and bought a couple hippie energy drinks.

A little nervous about how it would work, I warned the clerk that I was paying via my phone. [He was nonchalant](https://twitter.com/stickwithjosh/status/524259448114925569), which I appreciated.

Earlier when I added my card the only one that seemed to work was my Chase Debit card. We generally use an Amazon Visa (points!) but I'm happy enough to use the debit card temporarily as more banks and cards get setup.

The process was pretty remarkable. My phone was already lit up by the time I got it out of my pocket, asking for my thumb to verify my purchase. The kiosk seemed to know what was going on and suddenly asked for my pin, which threw me off. I guess debit cards will ask for this verification and give you a step to get cash back, presumably credit cards wouldn't do this.

##But why?

I had fun today trying this out, and will probably use it a quite a bit (particularly since this Whole Foods is the closest food source to our apartment).

Getting out my phone and getting out my wallet seem like roughly equivalent hassles, but I can imagine using a device that you've already got on your wrist would really simplify the process.

I've also been thinking about how many kiosks with strange logos I've seen over the past 5-10 years. All sorts of different services and devices, but I'd wager that today will be the largest use over a 24 hour period of this sort of thing in the US. Maybe Apple will release some numbers about it sometime soon.