---
date: "2015-08-25T14:00:21+00:00"
draft: false
tags: 
title: "116 Invoices"
---

Today I sent invoice #116.

That's 116 invoices sent to clients since I was dropped from an ongoing gig with [Fight for the Future](http://fightforthefuture.org) on April 22, 2013. I didn't have a backup plan and didn't have any work lined up, but had to make something work so we could pay the rent having moved to Portland a month before.

I had tried a few times previously to transition into contract work. Working independently was super interesting to me. I have the sort of  personality that really enjoys the freedom to define my own working hours and day.

At this point, I still haven&rsquo;t setup a proper company - I've been working underneath my name because there aren't a lot of benefits for setting up an LLC or company until you start working with additional people. I've primarily been doing work supporting another team or working for a client of a client so the people I'm submitting work to are largely development and design shops themselves that can provide feedback and understanding to my own work.

Here is a list of things I've learned from my experience so far:

* I like working for development shops, but my favorite jobs have all been where I'm the lead or sole developer working with a client directly on web services. Making the technology decisions, doing hiring and management of additional people on behalf of the client, and generally having ownership of the project is super rewarding.

* Every single time someone haggles with my hourly rate the client work is frustrating. I'm not sure how this relates, but they continue to second guess every decision and piece of work and generally don't trust me.

* Most of the time, clients who just read [my availability page](http://joshuablount.com/work#availability) and figure out my hourly rate and deposit preferences themselves have projects that go really well. Mutual respect is incredibly satisfying. 

* Although I've done work for an amazing variety of companies, every single piece of work I've done so far is under strict NDA or it's internal and not accessible to the public. This has the result of not really being able to show it off to new clients forcing me to convince new clients of my abilities via phone calls and email or during a short initial engagement.

* When I've had a trip, a medical procedure, or any other obligation that took me away from work I over estimate my ability to get back to work. My guess is I'm trying to reassure my client that I'll meet deadlines and expectations. Most of my clients would have been perfectly happy to accept a delay in exchange for realistic estimates in these cases.

* Most of my clients represent a few months of work - somewhere between 2 and 5 generally - and I've had very few repeat customers. Most of the time this is a result of people hiring replacements for me, which is financially and functionally a great decision for them but it leaves me feeling a touch unaccomplished.

For the most part I've done a pretty decent job of managing work and a slightly less capable job of managing our finances. Early on we could only weather a few weeks without work, and now we can manage nearly two months without a lot of disruption (although it of course requires a few months of work to restore those resources). I'm looking forward to getting a better handle on this in the future.

Something I'm correcting but I wish I started to do earlier on is working on my own projects. I'm working on a project right now that could potentially serve this purpose, but it would be really wonderful to both have something I can point to as my own as well as have something generating income that isn't attached directly to my hourly time.

Another thing I&rsquo;m evaluating is starting work much earlier. Most days I&rsquo;m now waking up at 5AM and in my office around 6AM. So far, that has resulted in a working day of 6AM - 5PM which isn&rsquo;t ideal, but it does allow for plenty of time to both take care of client work, handle administrative tasks and see the occasional mid-afternoon movie.

It's been a really good stretch and I'm excited to see what the next 116 invoices might look like.